hello and welcome to the first interview
in our we are bbc good food series in
which we introduce you to our team and
contributors
i'm christine hayes editor-in-chief and
i'm delighted to welcome our first guest
chef kirth gums who you'll recognize
from bbc2's great british menu
kirth is exec chef at alma at fleming's
hotel in london
hi kurt how you doing hey christine i'm
good thank you
thanks so much for joining us today we
really appreciate it before your busy
lunchtime service i just wondered if
you'd
share with us how you first became
interested in cooking
um this start from a very young age um
my mom was a very good chef and she
still is a very good chef she used to
cater to
um various different events she used to
well i was in
hotels you know she was catering to
birthday parties um
finna worlds weddings and um
it was something that i grew up with in
terms of seeing her cook
and making other people happy and having
lots of songs of appreciation
but it didn't really sink into me like i
wanted to be a chef
at that point it's just something that i
was around uh in terms of everywhere she
goes she you know maybe
tag with me along and you know at that
time you can see it as something that's
quite
boring um just standing around watching
waiting for hours and hours for your mom
to finish cook while she's having long
conversations so it was a bit daunting
but in high school you have
a choice to choose between auto
mechanics food nutrition
and woodwork and at this time i decided
to
go around do my own little assessments
and you know you walk around and see
which class you're gonna be more
interested into and you know woodworking
auto mechanics was dominated by boys you
know
just banging away things looking
underneath of hoods chiseling away
you know that's the boys you know that's
what they do that's what they did
and when i walked across towards the
food nutrition class
it had um you know 15 girls and just two
boys and i was like whoops that's the
class for me i'm going in there you know
um but at the end of it when i when i
went into food nutrition class in all
honesty it's like
back in the caribbean things was a bit
hard and you never always you never knew
where when your next proper meal is
going to be and i was thinking like you
know what
if i if i joined this class um at least
i was going to get a chance to
eat what uh what i produced and for me
that was a win-win
i went to food nutrition class and after
you know a month and so forth the
teachers was
you know putting the three boys against
the girls and then they were encouraging
and really saying like oh you're
actually really good or you're doing
well and that
and then from there it just started to
kick in you know we got
scouts come come to the school um from
the cordon bleu
like one time and they started to you
know tell us a little bit more about
what's your next steps after you finish
high school
but once finished in high school me and
one of my best friends we decided to
you know open a pizzeria it just made
sense because you know his
uncle was one of the lead in baker
had a leading bakery in uh in the island
so we had all the facilities in there to
be able to make pizza
um so you don't have a lot of cost in
buying new equipment so we
set up we did that like you know like 16
17 years old for like a year and a half
and then from there i went into the
hotel
um as an expediter and a waiter and
that's when i started to see a little
bit more and learn how to carry trays
and
and you know talk to guests and um just
seeing the the heat of the uh
of the kitchen you know watch the chefs
you know when they used to do that
flambe stuff in the wine and
fines growing up it just sucks you in it
with so much passion drama
yeah so after that you know i've
it was along the course that i was doing
but i still wasn't saying that i want to
be
a chef because you know running parallel
to this i
still do my athletics so i was very
heavily involved into track and field
and i had a scholarship that fell
through and
after that i was like at a point in my
life where i was like well you know what
um what can i do what would be my next
steps you know this was
i found it as an injustice so to say and
um
i just like mentioned some things to my
my father like very quickly and that was
in
like 2003 september and then he came up
with all
you know he was quite happy to hear me
say oh i probably want to pursue
culinary and
and go to cooking school and you know
between
2003 september i was in london on the
1st of
of of january 2004 so in the space of
three months
it was enroll into school pack up say
goodbye and you know and just go
get your way get into the wall and try
to just
make something different so that's what
i did and
eventually it was on the path of of
doing that something that resonated with
me which was cooking
and um and then yeah the rest was just
mounting my rear and plodding along um
you know trying to
conquer the food scene in in in london
which
you know again when i once i reach it
that blew my mind you know i mean
everything blew my mind at that at that
stage you know
first time i saw snow first time being
on a train it was just
amazing so yeah yeah it's a long way
isn't it from anguilla to mayfair and
where your restaurant alma is
can you tell us a little bit about alma
and the style of food that you cook in a
it's a very it's fair to say it's fine
dining
yes um so omar mayfield um
we've been opened for about four years
since 2016
and um yeah i came on board when this
was just a nutshell and nothing was
really
in place like that there yet and we have
to build it up and what we've
been doing is um just improving uh
year to year for the style of food that
we do so you can say it's modern
modern british there is accents of um
different cuisine and involved where
they could be a little bit mediterranean
and i have a few asian flavors
but that's more to say um it is
complementary towards
the clientele that we have um in the
area that we're cooking
so omar has been just you know evolving
in that sense um
in terms of the food that we produce the
service that we're trying to do
so have you adapted your service or
menus since the current cri
crisis yes i have um actually and
one of the things that we've done um
we've kind of
limited the amount of uh approaches
the waiters are will go to the table and
how we've done that by
for instance before you get your bread
then you'll get a boost then you'll get
your starter
and that's like foot traffic back and
forth to your table
over different periods in time during
your experience
but what we do now after you get bread
you will we will um
be consolidated by serving the starter
in amis bush together at the same time
for your desserts we will solve the
dessert and the petit 4 together at the
same time so you don't have to get your
dessert and then
wait and come back you get a coffee then
wait come back you get the um the pedi
pause
so that's like limiting at least two to
three different steps in terms of the
amount of times the waiters would
uh approach a table we've um
luckily we have a restaurant where we
can afford to have a little bit more
space uh which is good
uh for the fun part of the restaurant
and back part of the restaurant
so it's it's it's still really friendly
um
and that's you know one of the main
things that we've done
in terms of uh being more accessible
towards the
people that's coming in because we're
forever high priority just trying to
regain customers confidence in what we
do
and try to get people to come out again
and i've also limited the menu
in a sense for now uh a lot of my dishes
before they always have
kind of like a tag on a two-pair
dish so now if i do that i would solve
it at the same time
rather than before and then you get the
next course etc um
and we are looking to bump things up a
little bit more again once we see that
we are able to
you know have a bit more foot traffic in
gaining
the trust in the incompetence of the
guests so give us some a couple of
highlights on your menu if i were if i
were to come in for dinner tonight what
would you suggest that i order
um i would say for a starter
you probably want to try the crab or the
yellow tail
ceviche that's quite quite refreshing
the yellow taste of richer
um if you're going to try for main
course
i'll probably recommend you the lamb
i'll recommend you the um
the sea bass or the black cod it's like
you can see into my soul
i will highly recommend um a new dessert
i have on a menu it's like a eaten mess
my interpretation you make the mess with
a lemon
a fennel meringue lemon verbena
raspberry raw sorbet
it's absolutely delightful very
refreshing but you don't have to take my
word for it you should come down and try
it out
definitely will and for those people who
aren't able to get to the restaurant are
you doing any kind of delivery service
yes i'm doing we're doing home delivery
service
services um actually this week and next
week i'm doing a collaboration
which goes to 40 miles radius also going
nationwide for next weekend and that as
well is another
way of um doing our home delivery
service but
a normal home delivery service at the
restaurant is now within five
miles radius which you can find on
delivery supper uber eats um
all these applications and you know
we've been having good responses
here and there depending on the week so
yeah
it's it is available it is available and
we try to as well have
the dishes um quite similar to what you
will have in the restaurant
well we know that there's been you know
it's been a very tough time for chefs
and restaurants being closed
but have you seen any positives come out
of this sort of enforced
lockdown you know before i would say uh
still a bit like on defense to
understand and decide whether i think
i've seen any positives but
what i would say immediately like even
like today to be able to just connect
with you on this new way of
virtual online and doing interviews it's
not something that's you know
in common ground for me you know it's
always a little bit apprehensive of
of these kind of things and but now we
are we're finding a new norm and we're
finding excessive
accessibility towards it and so this is
a positive in terms of stepping out of
our comfort zone you can say
um yeah but i'm looking a lot more to
to see what else positives you can get
out of it because it's so far
the negatives has outweighed the
positives but as
um forthcoming and chefs that as a chef
you know you take up challenges and we
have to try to
land on our feet again i'm always um the
person to just look forward in terms of
extracting some kind of positivity from
this whole experience that's great and
so when when we were in lockdown and you
weren't in your restaurant what did you
miss the most
i missed their drilling of service i
missed um
you know the saturday night i miss my
chefs um
you know whether it's just feeding off
each other's energy
the conversations and banters and most
of all what i'd love to do is just
creating food creating different dishes
weekly and weekly you know always
drafting and trialing some new creation
and having that
facility just around to be able to do
what i love doing is
as creating food um that is something
that i missed
it's just a different buzz as for when
you're in the kitchen you know i can
work
16 15 whatever hours and
i'm not very wary i'm not too tired i
don't have to go outside i don't see
the light of day but if i'm in the
kitchen then like you're in you're in a
mentor
i'm just going and that's what you
missed did
your family like reap the rewards of
that were you cooking yeah definitely it
was trying our type of stuff the kids
was all over with little
little one-to-one classes and whether
it's bacons or
you know the fun stuff making cinnabons
making
uh chelsea buns muffins you name it we
were just doing it little barbecues
and they love having that little bit
more uh daddy time you know what it's
sitting watching cartoons going off a
bicycle ride they're just
doing a bunch of somersaults in the
trampoline so yeah
i'd like to see that guess you must have
got roped into like cooking dinner every
night as well have you got any
um recipes you can share with our
audience are quite simple to do at home
yeah it's
i would say right now during this period
in time like it's
you know we've been blessed with a very
good um weather
and it's been quite hot i would go for
the gazpacho
um cucumber gazpacho you know it's very
easy simple to do with a parmesan
custard
i like the contrast between um cold and
creaminess of the parmesan custard um
you know and that's simple you got like
i would say two cucumbers two green
peppers
two green chilies half a bunch of basil
half a bunch of parsley a bit of white
wine
or sherry vinegar if you have like
yeah about 40 mls again sugar about 20
grams
salt about 10 to 15 grams of mold in sea
salt
and yeah blitz that all together
add about two slices of white bread
which is these are things that you can
easily come across
in your own home and that's you your
gift spatula chillido nice and cold
pasta
chinois and for the parmesan custard
it's just
literally 250 mls of milk you're going
to have 75 grams of grated parmesan
cheese
slowly melt it down whiz it in a blender
and then for every 100 mil
sorry add one bread to that as well one
slice of white bread
and for every 100 grams of that liquid
just add two eggs and put it in the
steamer for about
15 minutes at 80 degrees and that's your
parmesan custard to go with your cold
cucumber spatula
a very mayfair quick supper
so we talked to them earlier about about
the fact that you come from anguilla
and we asked you in the august issue of
bbc good food to write about
anguilla for us a lot of us aren't
traveling at the moment so can you bring
anguilla alive for us and tell us about
the the great
food traditions here we go get ready you
know buckle up
so we're going to we're going to
anguilla um
yeah especially at this point in time
you know
in summer it's it brings together all
the facilities you have
carnival that's going on you have august
monday you have boat racing
and farm take from your first um trip to
the neighboring island of san martin
which you then catch that
speedboat over to anguilla is where you
first
encounter a little bit of the
pleasantries where you have your
complimentary rum punch cocktail you
know please
yeah yeah when you get that rum punch
that
already gets you a little bit of that
you know soggy feeling you reach over to
the island
and from there you know thursday friday
saturday and especially at this period
now when there's
as i said the carnival festivities they
will always have something to do going
on
whether it's on the strip and you you
know fridays and saturdays is
really about the barbecuing but from
from pork
chicken fish whatever you name it it's
on the
on the barbecue grills and you know
opposite stalls selling different
array of stuff between you know
dumplings and soups and curries and
and so forth and that's something that
everybody looks forward to because
when that is finished you go into your
sundaes and so forth you're going over
to the
we have like a lot of little i mean
angular itself is small but we have a
lot of little
keys little islands that's uninhabited
so we do a lot of um
parties um where you just travel from
the island to that
other little key and there's real sense
of like you know
shacks bamboos trees palm trees coconut
trees
and just sand and you're just on there
having like a little beach party for
that
afternoon on different days with
different themes and so it's like a
little getaway
and you don't really have to go that far
you don't need to have uh
border control or passports or anything
you just get in your little boat and you
know if you're good enough you can even
swim it over so
it's just about relaxing real good fun
and the water is
absolutely amazing it's crystal clear i
mean we have probably
uh three of the top best beaches in in
in the top 50 in the world and
they're very good you know it's so it's
if you're gonna go and you're gonna love
a bit of let me down crayfish lobster
barbecues
um some good old curries and just
enjoying people with a nice
hyperactive um personalities who's just
going to make everybody feel
warm and welcome and if that doesn't do
it in terms of personalities then the
wrong punches will
oh thank you so much curt i really
appreciate you sharing your experience
and your knowledge
with us and everybody you can find
kurt's anguilla feature in the august
issue of bbc
good food which is on now and don't
forget you can hear more from good food
on our weekly bbc
good food podcast with tom carriage in
which we discuss everything from baking
to
barbecues so find out online at
bbcgoodfood.com
thank you kurt and have a great day
cheers for having me